Ryan Lau
APCS
HW36 -- All Quacked Up
2021-11-18
time spent: 0.6 hrs

notes on Thinkjava Appendix D Debugging
https://books.trinket.io/thinkjava2/appendix-d.html

three types of errors, each with it's own approach to debugging:
    1. compile time: something is wrong with syntax
    2. runtime: something goes wrong while program is running
    3. logic error: code doesn't operate in expected way

debugging compile time errors:
    1. use incremental development to avoid searching for where the error may lie
    2. only the first error message is reliable
    3. error messages can contain important information such as when the compiler noticed the error
    4. error messages at a method invocation may mean the error is in the method definition
    5. error messages can sometimes be wrong
    6. USE AS A DESPERATE MEASURE: debugging by bisection:
        a. backup code: Bob.java -> Bob.java.old
        b. delete half of the broken code and compile, if it compiles, the error is in the other half
        c. repeat until you find the error

debugging runtime errors:
    1. program hangs (program appears to stop or do nothing) generally mean that there is an infiite loop or recursion (StackOverflowError)
        a. add print statements before and after loops that may be the source of issue
    2. read the name of the Exception and then examing the location where the Exception was raised

debugging logic errors:
    1. ask yourself if the program is doing something that it shouldn't and/or vice versa
    2. break code into components and test them individually
    3. rewrite complex expressions into a series of assignments to temporarily values to make the code more readable
    4. walk away from the computer in times of range
        a. "good places to find bugs are buses, showers, and bed"
    5. generally when you explain the problem, you will find the answer so try explaining the problem to a ducky
    6. as a last resort, ask someone else for help given that you understand the problem enough it describe in concisely. you should also give them any information they need
